The screenplay is represented as a series of lines. Lines are separated by
a single byte 0x0A. The file is encoded in UTF-8, and begins with the
Unicode BOM marker, i.e. the bytes "EF BB BF".

There are two kinds of lines: Normal lines and config lines.

Config lines are of the form: "#", "Config-Name", " " (space),
"Config-Value". Config-Value can be empty. Example: "#Version 1". The
file's first line must contain the "Version" config value.

Config values:

"Version". Required. Value: (digit)+. The fileformat version that the file
uses. Currently only version 1 exists.

"Title-Page". Value: None. Starts a new title page.

"Title-String". Adds a new string to the current title page. If no title
pages exist yet, creates one. Example:

 0.000000,70.000000,24,cb,Helvetica,text here

 Format is: xpos,ypos,fontsize,style-flags,font,text

  'xpos' and 'ypos' are floating point values, giving the offset in
  millimeters of the upper-left corner of the text string from the
  upper-left corner of the page.

  'fontsize' is font size in points, e.g. 1/72 inch units.

  'style-flags' can contain any combination of the following characters:

   c: Text is centered horizontally on the page. In this case xpos is not
   used for anything.

   b, i, u: Text is bold / italic / underlined.

  'font' is the font name. Currently supported are Courier, Helvetica and
  Times (Times-Roman).

  'text' is simply the text string.


Normal lines:

Each normal line has two bytes at the beginning that signal the type of
linebreak at the end of that line and the general type of the line, and
everything after that is the text of the line.

Linebreak types:

'>' - Automatic linebreak, and a space between this line and the next
that's missing now since there's a linebreak. Used for normal breaks where
the program broke the line between words.

'&' - Automatic linebreak, with nothing missing between this line and the
next. Used for breaks where the program broke the line in the middle of a
word.

'|' - Forced linebreak. Used when the user has inserted a forced line
break.

'.' - No linebreak. This is the last line of the element.

Line types:

'\' - Scene heading.

'.' - Action.

'_' - Character.

':' - Dialogue.

'(' - Parenthetical.

'/' - Transition.

'=' - Shot

'%' - Note

More line types are probably going to be added in the future without
increasing the fileformat version number, so unknown line types should be
converted to Action, and a warning given to user about this.


An example screenplay using this format:

﻿#Version 1
.\INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
>.JIM and JASON, two men in their thirties, are standing in
>.the middle of an empty warehouse. The place looks like it was
..abandoned a long time ago.
..Jason walks behind a barrel and stoops to pick something up.
.=Insert - gun in Jason's hand.
._JIM
.:Hey, what's happening here?
.((looks at Jason)
>:What are you doing with that gun --
.:Hey man --
|.Jason SHOOTS Jim in the chest, twice.
..Jim collapses to the ground and twitches for a while, then stops.
.%Do we need a more gruesome death scene?
._JASON
.:Bad things happen to bad people.
..Jason pockets the gun and hurriedly exits the building.
>.A ghost-like figure rises up from Jim's body and hovers
..above the ground.
._JIM
.:Hey man, you almost killed me!
..He notices his own dead body on the ground.
._JIM
>:Uhh...I am dead, on second thought.
>:Sorry Jason, didn't mean to
.:question your shooting skills.
./DISSOLVE TO:
.\EXT. HIGHWAY, LOS ANGELES - DAY
>.Jason is driving along in his Porsche convertible. The sun
>.is shining, the radio is loud, and he has his sunglasses on.
..All in all, the world is looking up for him right now.
